>> Brian Holt: We're gonna create
an App.js file, and again, just really,
really simple here I'm gonna say,
import, Create Element as H.
You can leave this as Create Element.
I just 1h was like a really standard
thing to do back in the day when
people used to not use JSX.
So I just kinda stuck with it, but
it's just to make it really easy
to create React components.
It's an alias we'll call function app,
and we're going to return H.
So this is normally we'd write JSX.
We're just gonna do it with
vanilla JavaScript for a minute.
Div Null and
then we'll put another component in here.
It's gonna be an H1 has nothing there.
And we're gonna say
Hello frontend masters.
And another H "p",
null, and this is SSG.
>> Brian Holt: And
then export default App.
>> Brian Holt: So again,
if you took complete intro to react,
the first part of this course
is writing react without JSX.
This is essentially what we did here.
Later if you wanna come back and
reimplement this using Babel and vite and
all that kind of stuff,
by all means, go ahead.
But now we don't have to set up
a whole build process, which I think
everyone here is like one less webpack
step in their life is a good day.
Again, this isn't particularly
interesting code, so
feel free to just copy it
out of the docs as well.
I'm super okay with that.
But I wanna make a file called build.js
now, and this is gonna be a little noddy,
but you'll kinda get the gist
of like what Next and Astro and
all these frameworks really do for you.
And you're gonna be,
it's actually really not that much.
Or sometimes if you don't need
the full power of Astro behind you,
sometimes this can be useful.
I just need to get some content
templated and generated and
I wanna use React to do that.
This will work just fine.
So we're gonna do import render.
I can spell, render to static
markup from reactdom/server.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
we're gonna import again our H,
create element as h from react.
And then we need a bunch of just
dumb file stuff from, no Js so
bear with me for here just a second.
Realfilesync, writefilesync,
existssync, makedirsync,
readdirsync, and unlinksync.
Now, why all the syncs?
Again, I was just trying to keep
this code simple, not asynchronous.
These are async by default and I'm just
gonna make the build process wait for
every step to happen.
If you had a massive app, you'd wanna
make this more in parallel, right?
And this is just gonna come from,
you can put from FS,
I imagine most of you are probably used to
just writing FS like that, file system.
The new way of doing that is
actually node colon FS, so
you're explicitly coming from
the node standard library.
That's totally up to you, they both work.
I'm just trying to make myself get in the
habit of writing node colon coz I don't
know someone the one of the node card
members told me to do it that way, and
I just didn't ask many questions,
if we're being really honest,
of what happened, okay.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna import
file URL to path from node colon,
URL like that we're going to import.
Why do I have path in there twice?
I don't know, but
we're gonna follow the notes and
dirname from node colon path, and
then we're finally gonna import our app
from App./app.js or something like that.
Sometimes it gets finicky
about the extensions.
One of the things, if you've worked much
in no JS, you frequently refer to dirname.
Like this with this like double underscore
coz it allows you to refer to where
the app is currently running.
It's basically like the president
working directly of where you are,
if you're familiar with
the Linux kinda terminology.
I'm just gonna say that I find this
incredibly annoying that they didn't
anticipate that this was going to
be also a practice with es modules.
So you have to redefine what
dirname is in es modules and
I can never remember how to do it.
So if you wanna know about,
one of the things I use AI for
all the time is define dirname for
es modules or something like that.
And I'll just have it generate
this little snippet of code.
For me, it generates the same thing for
me every single time.
Yeah, it looks exactly like this.
So it generates file name and which is,
you can also use as well and dirname,
I think that's literally in my notes there
as well, is it looks just like this.
But this is like one of the things I
use AI for all the time it's like,
I know this code out there exists.
I don't remember exactly how
to do it off top my head.
I know you have to use file
you are at a path, and
then this will actually give you what
in common JS will always be defined.
But for es modules, you have to
redefine it every single time, okay?
And then we need to make a distpath,
const distpath = path.join_dirname,
"dist".
So this is actually where we wanted to
export the finished files to, right?
Okay, const shell =,
we're gonna read our index.html, so
read filesync, and then we're gonna say
path.join_dirname, index.html.
>> Brian Holt: And it's a UTF-8 file,
which is the encoding,
not that you really need
to need to care at all.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now this is
going to be just a string of what's
in this index.html file,
which is the shell of our app so to speak.
Const app is going to be
renderToStaticMarkup.
And then we have to give it h,
coz we have to
instantiate the R app,
and so App like that.
So now this is a string, right?
Coz renderToStaticMarkup will give
you back a string of whatever this
rendered with.
So now I have my shell, right?
Which is the index.html file and
I have whatever is an app rendered
out to like a final string.
At this point, you can probably
guess what's gonna happen, right?
So we're gonna say const
html equals shell.replace.
And we're gonna do that same string.
I can type, there we go, root, and
we're gonna replace it with app.
And now this will be a string
of our completed app.
>> Brian Holt: And then the bottom
part here is just making sure if
the directory exists, create it.
If it's full of stuff,
delete the stuff in there.
And then at the end you just write all of
your files out and then you were done.
So we're gonna say if existsSync distpath.
>> Brian Holt: Mkdirsync distpath.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
else const files equals
readersync
>> Brian Holt: Dist path,
and then we're just gonna go and delete
everything, which is called unlinking.
So you're gonna say for
const file of files.
>> Brian Holt: And
then you're gonna go through here and
say, unlink sync path.join distpath and
file.
Okay, does that make sense?
What this does directory exists.
If it doesn't exist,
create it if it does exist,
delete everything in it and then write
filesync path.join distpath index.html and
you're gonna write out your HTML.
>> Brian Holt: No, this is it, right?
We should run this, right?
Coz it's gonna be amazing and
it's gonna blow your mind.
You're gonna be like, My God,
I have created fire, right?
Like you just banged two rocks together.
This obviously only works on one file
right now with one app with no props and
put it, but I'm hoping that you
can look at this and like, yeah,
I can very much understand here how
to create multiple pages, right?
With multiple different props and
multiple different permutations, right?
This here is the beginnings of
a framework that you're building for
static site generation.
This is essentially what Astro does for
you underneath the hood, right?
It renders your app, it just outputs it
to raw files and that's what you get.
So we should be able to
just run node build.
Okay, so now we have this disk directory.
You can look in your index at HTML,
and you can see, hello,
frontend masters, this is SSG, right?
No mention of React.
You never would even have to know that
this was generated by react, right?
And like I said, this is really what
Astro does for you underneath the hood.
It's a more sophisticated build.js file,
but yeah,
I'm sure you can imagine here we
could define, like a routes.js file.
You would define this file
corresponds to this component, and
generate them in this order,
with these props, have these permutations.
You could actually have little
mini React js Apps that would
instantiate on every page.
You actually could add some interactivity.
This is what I'm talking
about where we can kinda
shove some of these things together.
Just because you're doing static site
generation doesn't mean that you
can't have React on top of it.
This is just another way of
accomplishing some of these things.
You could definitely bring in something
like React router or ten stack router and
put that on top of that and
now you have a spa, right?
So, the world is your oyster is
really what I'm trying to say.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, any questions about
the code that we went through here?
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I mean, it's one
of those things that you probably went
through this as wow,
I assumed this did more.
And that's why I love doing these kind
of first principles apps together,
is you realize it doesn't
really do that much for you.
The complexity that's underneath
the hood really isn't that complex.
>> Brian Holt: So going back here
to static site generation is like,
okay, but just use Astro.
[LAUGH] right, I've now shown you
everything of how you could do this
yourself, but now that you understand
the tool and what next and Gatsby and
Astro were all doing for you.
Just use them, right?
And now you understand when stuff breaks,
you can understand where some of
these things are falling apart.
And you can also probably
understand how you can improve and
make them more performant and better and
all these kind of things, right?
But Astro is an amazing piece of software,
I like it quite a bit.
If I was gonna recreate something today,
I probably would just use Astro,
I quite like it.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, like I said,
this app is built on top of Next.js.
It's just obviously what I know the best,
but Astro is awesome as well.
The previous versions of this,
course, were built on Gatsby.
That's a fun fact, but
now that they got acquired by Netlify,
they don't seem to be as
maintained as they were.
So I would say these two Astro, Next are
really the state of the art at the moment.
Again, this site you're looking
at yourself is a more complicated
static site.
So just to kinda walk you through that,
this is the markdown that generated
this page that you're looking at.
I mean, that's the really
nice part about all this,
is I get to author everything in Markdown,
which I love.
You can see here,
has all the keywords and description.
This is the stuff I was telling you
that was generated by chat GPT.
So, it makes experience.
And then you can see down here to
the next config I have the export part.
That's the part that makes it so
it's static site.
You can see that actually ends up being
this HTML doc, right, which is great.
It's exactly what I want.
So you can see this
entire site is just one.
Just straight up HTML, right?
>> Brian Holt: It makes it super easy to
do things to help the front of masters
team with the editing of this,
it generates a CSV file of all
the various different lessons,
it makes all the SEO stuff very easy.
But that's all thanks to static
site generation, it's perfect for
that use kinda use case.
So any questions about SSG?
>> Speaker 2: Do you ever use markdown
instead of React components or
somehow mix and match?
>> Brian Holt: I see them as
different tools for different jobs.
If I was gonna write this course in React,
it would be very painful for
no reason, right?
I don't understand why you would just
directly author JSX for static sites,
unless you were building some large
layer of interactivity on top of it.
But even then,
would use I forgot what it's called, but
there's some markdown flavor that allows
you to embed React components in it.
I'm sure someone here knows what it is.
I would use something like that, right?
I wouldn't actually still
author it directly in markdown.
So markdown is great for
just like I got h1s, h2s, paragraphs,
block quotes, all that kind of stuff.
And then I will render that to HTML, and
then I will put that into a page, right?
So it's one layer of abstraction
higher than a React component.
>> Speaker 2: Chad is shouting, MDX
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you got it, MDX,
thank you, Chad.